# PlayPen Core

PlayPen is a generic cross-platform server management and load balancing
framework. PlayPen is designed primarily for ephemeral services, ones that do
not need to store any permanent data and can be shut down or spun up at will.

By itself, playpen does not do anything and must receive commands from somewhere
whether that be the command line client, [PVI](https://github.com/PlayPen/PVI),
another client, or a plugin.

PlayPen was originally developed to automatically balance minecraft game servers
at [The Chunk](https://thechunk.net), but can be used to deploy and manage any
kind of self-contained service.

## Docker image

This repo is a fork of the original PlayPen project which has a Maven plugin
(docker-maven-plugin) that automatically deploys the packaged artifact to the
Docker registry on https://hub.docker.com/r/hugmanrique/playpen/.

You can build the Docker image by running `mvn clean package docker:build`.

## Protobuf Compilation

Protobuf files should automatically compile when you compile PlayPen using
Maven. However, you can still build the Protobuf files manually should the need
arise. You must have the
[protoc compiler](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/downloads)
installed in order to do this . Run `build_protocol.bat` or `build_protocol.sh`
from the project's root directory.

**Make sure you use protobuf 2.x.x! 3.x.x is not currently supported!**

## Usage

Before using any playpen tools, PlayPen needs to set itself up. Simply place the
playpen jar wherever you wish playpen's home directory to be, and run it without
any arguments. It will create the default configuration files and exit.

It is generally recommended to use the bundled scripts to run playpen instead of
launching the jar manually. To set this up, simply run

    java -jar PlayPen-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar

This should copy some scripts and configuration files into the current folder.

To start the network coordinator, run

    playpen-network

To start a local coordinator, run

    playpen-local

Packaging tools are found at the "p3" command. Run it to see a list of them:

    playpen-p3

The playpen cli client can be run with:

    playpen-cli

Note that the cli uses the "local.json" configuration file as it represents
itself to the network as a local coordinator.

**Warning: You cannot run multiple instances of playpen from the same
installation!** If you need to run multiple instances of playpen (for example, a
network coordinator and a local coordinator), use two separate directories and
playpen jars.

## Plugins

Plugins are currently only supported for the network coordinator. Local
coordinator support will come soon, but until then it is impossible to add
custom package execution steps.

## Servers/Services

A service (or server) is a single instance of a running package (see below).
When a service runs on a local coordinator, it is given a unique working
directory based on a UUID assigned by the network. Good practice dictates that
any work with the filesystem should ideally be done in this directory in order
to not interrupt other services, but in cases where that isn't possible it's
fine to access other files on a coordinator provided you know what you are
doing.

## Packages

PlayPen uses a package system known as _P3_ to send files across the network.
The network coordinator acts as a package repository which all local
coordinators can pull from. All services run by playpen must be contained in a
package. Common components shared between services can be split off into their
own package using P3's dependency system. Local coordinators cache packages
locally so that they do not have to be continuously sent over the network.

There are three main types of packages: script packages, standard packages, and
asset packages. PlayPen doesn't technically makea distinction between the types
of packages, but it's good to think of each package as being one of these.

### Script packages

A script package contains no files except the package metadata (package.json).
As such, the package should not have an "expand" provision step (see below).
Script packages will generally just run some commands via the package metadata
file.

### Standard Packages

Standard packages contain a set of files that are extracted from the package
into the service's working directory. These packages will use an "expand"
provision step to expand/extract the package files into the appropriate
directory. They will then generally run a set of commands during the execute
step in order to start the service.

### Asset Packages

Asset packages contain files that should be extracted into a location where
multiple services can access them. They should be used for things like storing
common map data for a game when you know the files will never be modified. That
way you only have to extract them a single time for each local coordinator, and
all services will have access to those files.

Asset packages use the "expand-assets" provision step almost exclusively. They
generally should not be provisioned directly, and should instead be listed as a
dependency.

## Reliability

Local coordinators should be able to run for months on end without being
restarted (bar needing to update to a newer version). The network coordinator
can be restarted without affecting the operation of the network (aside from
losing the ability to control the network for the time that the network
coordinator is down).

PlayPen is designed with reliability in mind. Here are some neat features
relating to reliability:

* The network coordinator is only required to control local coordinators. Local
  coordinators can operate in a "holding pattern" without a connection to the
  network.
* The network coordinator can be restarted safely for any reason at any time.
  This ties into the idea that local coordinators don't need to be connected all
  the time to do their work (though that is ideal).
* It is easy to change where the network coordinator is located. Current
  implementation simply needs you to change each local coordinator's config file
  and shut down the old network coordinator. Local coordinators will
  automatically reload their config after being disconnected.
* The state of the network is figured out on the fly; there is no database for
  services since they are generally ephemeral. The network coordinator figures
  out what goes where without any extra help.

## Warning

PlayPen is not an out of the box solution for server management. Even at The
Chunk we had a huge custom stack that actually allowed us to make use of
PlayPen. We had a plugin in PlayPen that would send the IP and port of every
server to redis, then a plugin on bungeecord that read in the list of servers
from redis. Finally we had a component on our hub server (which was not managed
by PlayPen as it had to always exist in the same location -- not ephemeral)
which also read the list of servers from redis in order to display available
servers to players.

## Contributing

Feel free to send pull requests! If you want a change made in PlayPen, just
remember the following:

* PlayPen is designed to be generic. Anything built to run specific services
  should be placed in their own plugins, not in playpen-core.
* Changes should have little to no impact on reliability.
